Document data source type support for data pipelines (#4394)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/dev/tools/cli.md

{{% alert title="Important" color="note" %}}
Keep these key values safe.
By default, new organization API keys are created with **Owner** permissions, giving the key full read and write access to all machines within your organization.

> You can change an API key's permissions from the Viam app on the [organizations page](/manage/reference/organize/) by clicking the **Show details** link next to your API key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change an API key's permissions on the [organizations page](/manage/reference/organize/) by clicking the **Show details** link next to your API key.
```

   Where:

   - `location-id` is your location ID.

>      You can find your location ID by running `viam locations list` or by visiting your [fleet's page](https://app.viam.com/robots) in the Viam app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     You can find your location ID by running `viam locations list` or by visiting your [fleet page in Viam](https://app.viam.com/robots).
```

{{% alert title="Important" color="note" %}}
Keep these key values safe.
By default, new location API keys are created with **Owner** permissions, giving the key full read and write access to all machines within your location.

> You can change an API key's permissions from the Viam app on the [organizations page](/manage/reference/organize/) by clicking the **Show details** link next to your API key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change an API key's permissions from Viam on the [organizations page](/manage/reference/organize/) by clicking the **Show details** link next to your API key.
```

### Create a machine part API key

To use a machine part API key to authenticate your CLI session, you must first create one:

> You can do this from the organization's settings page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) or with the CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can do this from the organization's settings page in [Viam](https://app.viam.com) or with the CLI.
```

   Where:

   - `machine-id` is your machine's ID.
     You can find your machine ID by running `viam machines list`, or by clicking the **...** button in the upper-right corner of your machine's page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), and selecting **Copy machine ID**.
   - `org-id` is an optional organization ID to attach the key to.

>      You can find your organization ID by running `viam organizations list` or by visiting your organization's **Settings** page in the Viam app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     You can find your organization ID by running `viam organizations list` or by visiting your organization's **Settings** page in Viam.
```

| `--method` | Filter by specified method. | `export binary`, `export tabular`, `delete`, `tag filter`| Optional |
| `--mime-types` | Filter by specified MIME type (accepts comma-separated list). | `export binary`, `delete`, `tag filter`|false |
| `--org-ids` | Filter by specified organizations ID (accepts comma-separated list). See [Using the `ids` argument](#using-the-ids-argument) for instructions on retrieving these values. | `export binary`, `delete`, `tag filter`| Optional |
| `--parallel` | Number of download requests to make in parallel, with a default value of 10. | `export binary`, `delete`, `dataset export` | Optional |
| `--part-id` | Filter by specified part ID. | `export binary`, `export tabular`, `delete`, `tag filter`| Optional, **Required** for `export tabular` |
| `--part-name` | Filter by specified part name. | `export binary`, `delete`, `tag filter`| Optional |
| `--machine-id` | Filter by specified machine ID. | `export binary`, `delete`, `tag filter` | Optional |

> | `--machine-name` | Filter by specified machine name. | `export binary`, `delete`, `tag filter`| Optional |

Reviewer: Flagging this since it came up today: many commands have a `--machine` option, aliased to `--machine-name` and `--machine-id`, which you can pass either a machine id or machine name to. Curious that this list includes the aliases but not the parent option (when our other docs explicitly mention only the parent option, with one notable exception where there is no alias).

| `--tags` | Filter by (`export`, `delete`) or add (`tag`) specified tag (accepts comma-separated list). |`export binary`, `delete`, `tag ids`, `tag filter` | Optional |
| `--bbox-labels` | String labels corresponding to bounding boxes within images. | `tag filter`, `export binary` | Optional |
| `--chunk-limit` | Maximum number of results per download request (tabular data only). | `tag filter` | Optional |
| `--password` | Password for the database user being configured. | `database configure` | **Required** |
| `--resource-name` | Resource name. Sometimes called "component name". | `export tabular` | **Required** |
| `--resource-subtype` | Resource {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="api-namespace-triplet" text="API namespace triplet" >}}. | `export tabular` | **Required** |

### `datapipeline`

> The `datapipeline` command allows you to manage data pipelines for processing and transforming your machine data.
> With it, you can create, update, list, describe, and delete data pipelines that run {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="mql" text="MQL" >}} queries on your synced data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `datapipeline` command provides access to data pipelines for processing machine data with {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="mql" text="MQL" >}} queries.
```

# create a data pipeline with hot storage data source type for faster access
viam datapipeline create --org-id=123 --name="Real-time Analytics" --schedule="*/5 * * * *" --mql='[{"$match": {"component_name": "camera1"}}]' --data-source-type=hotstorage

# update an existing data pipeline with a new schedule and data source type
viam datapipeline update --id=abc123 --name="Updated Pipeline" --schedule="0 */6 * * *" --mql='[{"$match": {"location_id": "loc123"}}]' --data-source-type=standard

# list all data pipelines in an organization
viam datapipeline list --org-id=123

# get detailed information about a specific data pipeline
viam datapipeline describe --id=abc123

# delete a data pipeline
viam datapipeline delete --id=abc123
```

#### Command options

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Command option | Description | Positional arguments |
| -------------- | ----------- | -------------------- |
| `create` | Create a new data pipeline. | - |
| `update` | Update an existing data pipeline. | - |
| `list` | List all data pipelines in an organization. | - |

> | `describe` | Get detailed information about a specific data pipeline. | - |
> | `delete` | Delete a data pipeline. | - |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `describe` | Get detailed information about a specific data pipeline. | - |
| `delete` | Delete a data pipeline. | - |
| `disable` | Stop executing a data pipeline without deleting it. | - |
| `enable` | Resume executing a disabled data pipeline. | - |
```

| `--schedule` | Cron schedule for when the pipeline should run, for example "0 9 * * *" for daily at 9 AM. | `create`, `update` | **Required** |
| `--mql` | MQL (MongoDB Query Language) query as a JSON string for data processing. | `create`, `update` | **Required** |
| `--mql-path` | Path to a JSON file containing the MQL query for the data pipeline. | `create`, `update` | Optional |
| `--data-source-type` | Data source type for the pipeline. Options: `standard` (default), `hotstorage`. Standard provides cost-effective storage for regular analytics, while hotstorage offers faster access for real-time processing. | `create`, `update` | Optional |
| `--id` | ID of the data pipeline to update, describe, or delete. | `update`, `describe`, `delete` | **Required** |

#### Data source types

Data pipelines support different data source types to optimize performance and cost for different use cases:

- **`standard`** (default): Cost-effective storage optimized for regular batch processing and analytics workloads.
- **`hotstorage`**: High-performance storage optimized for real-time processing and frequent data access with lower latency.

> Choose the data source type based on your pipeline's performance requirements and access patterns. You can specify the data source type when creating a pipeline, and update it later if your requirements change.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Commands

> ### `data`

Reviewer 2: Oof--quick scan says this is just alphabetizing, trusting no material changes since I don't see any

| `--part-name` | Filter by specified part name. | `export binary`, `delete`, `tag filter`| Optional |
| `--machine-id` | Filter by specified machine ID. | `export binary`, `delete`, `tag filter` | Optional |
| `--machine-name` | Filter by specified machine name. | `export binary`, `delete`, `tag filter`| Optional |
| `--tags` | Filter by (`export`, `delete`) or add (`tag`) specified tag (accepts comma-separated list). |`export binary`, `delete`, `tag ids`, `tag filter` | Optional |
| `--bbox-labels` | String labels corresponding to bounding boxes within images. | `tag filter`, `export binary` | Optional |
| `--chunk-limit` | Maximum number of results per download request (tabular data only). | `tag filter` | Optional |
| `--password` | Password for the database user being configured. | `database configure` | **Required** |
| `--resource-name` | Resource name. Sometimes called "component name". | `export tabular` | **Required** |
| `--resource-subtype` | Resource {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="api-namespace-triplet" text="API namespace triplet" >}}. | `export tabular` | **Required** |

> 

Reviewer 2: (For my own/future reference, I think diff begins here)

viam datapipeline list --org-id=123

# get detailed information about a specific data pipeline
viam datapipeline describe --id=abc123

# delete a data pipeline
viam datapipeline delete --id=abc123
```

#### Command options

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Command option | Description | Positional arguments |
| -------------- | ----------- | -------------------- |
| `create` | Create a new data pipeline. | - |
| `describe` | Get detailed information about a specific data pipeline. | - |
| `delete` | Delete a data pipeline. | - |
| `disable` | Stop executing a data pipeline without deleting it. | - |
| `enable` | Resume executing a disabled data pipeline. | - |
| `list` | List all data pipelines in an organization. | - |
| `update` | Update an existing data pipeline. | - |
| `--help` | Return help. | - |

##### Named arguments

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Argument | Description | Applicable commands | Required? |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--org-id` | ID of the organization that owns the data pipeline. | `create`, `list` | **Required** |
| `--name` | Name of the data pipeline. | `create`, `update` | **Required** |

> | `--schedule` | Cron schedule that expresses when the pipeline should run, for example "0 9 * * *" for daily at 9 AM. | `create`, `update` | **Required** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `--schedule` | Cron schedule that expresses when the pipeline should run, for example `0 9 * * *` for daily at 9 AM. | `create`, `update` | **Required** |
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Argument | Description | Applicable commands | Required? |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------------- | --------- |

> | `--dataset-id` | Dataset to perform an operation on. To retrieve the ID, navigate to your dataset’s page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), click **…** in the left-hand menu, and click **Copy dataset ID** | `rename`, `delete`, `data add`, `data remove`, `export` | **Required** |
> | `--dataset-ids` | Dataset IDs of datasets to be listed. To retrieve these IDs, navigate to your dataset’s page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), click **…** in the left-hand menu, and click **Copy dataset ID** | `list` | Optional |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `--dataset-id` | Dataset to perform an operation on. To retrieve the ID, navigate to your dataset’s page in [Viam](https://app.viam.com), click **…** in the left-hand menu, and click **Copy dataset ID** | `rename`, `delete`, `data add`, `data remove`, `export` | **Required** |
| `--dataset-ids` | Dataset IDs of datasets to be listed. To retrieve these IDs, navigate to your dataset’s page in [Viam](https://app.viam.com), click **…** in the left-hand menu, and click **Copy dataset ID** | `list` | Optional |
```

To find your organization's ID, run `viam organization list` or navigate to your organization's **Settings** page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com/).
Find **Organization ID** and click the copy icon.

To find the dataset ID of a given dataset, go to the [**DATASETS** subtab](https://app.viam.com/data/datasets) of the **DATA** tab on the Viam app and select a dataset.
Click **...** in the left-hand menu and click **Copy dataset ID**.

> To find a location ID, run `viam locations list` or visit your [fleet's page](https://app.viam.com/robots) in the Viam app and copy from **Location ID**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find a location ID, run `viam locations list` or visit your [fleet's page](https://app.viam.com/robots) in Viam and copy from **Location ID**.
```

> To find the binary data ID of a given image, navigate to the [**DATA** tab in the Viam app](https://app.viam.com/data/view) and select your image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find the binary data ID of a given image, navigate to the [**DATA** tab in Viam](https://app.viam.com/data/view) and select your image.
```

> To find your organization's ID, run `viam organization list` or navigate to your organization's **Settings** page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find your organization's ID, run `viam organization list` or navigate to your organization's **Settings** page in [Viam](https://app.viam.com/).
```

Find **Organization ID** and click the copy icon.

To find the dataset ID of a given dataset, go to the [**DATASETS** subtab](https://app.viam.com/data/datasets) of the **DATA** tab in Viam and select a dataset.
Click **...** in the left-hand menu and click **Copy dataset ID**.

To find a location ID, run `viam locations list` or visit your [fleet's page](https://app.viam.com/robots) in Viam and copy from **Location ID**.

> To find the binary data ID of a given image, navigate to the [**DATA** tab in Viam](https://app.viam.com/data/view) and select your image.

Reviewer: I could, but I suspect it would be more work than it's worth to try to individually revert all of these one-line changes through the GitHub UI. I thought we wanted to say 'Viam' instead of 'Viam app' in most of these cases anyway? I can remove the vaguely-incorrect wordy additions, though, like 'and copy from Location ID'

> To find the binary data ID of a given image, navigate to the [**DATA** tab in Viam](https://app.viam.com/data/view) and select your image.

Reviewer 2: Oop sorry I made a comment on this PR as a whole about removing these without having seen this thread. My understanding is yes we do want to say "in Viam" instead of "in the Viam app," but we'd rather say nothing at all instead of saying "in Viam," because it's contextually clear and because we want to be brief.

viam data tag filter add --tags=new_tag_1,new_tag_2 --location-ids=012 --machine-name=cool-machine --org-ids=84842  --mime-types=image/jpeg,image/png
```

> To find the dataset ID of a given dataset, go to the [**DATASETS** subtab](https://app.viam.com/data/datasets) under the **DATA** tab on the Viam app and select a dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find the dataset ID of a given dataset, go to the [**DATASETS** subtab](https://app.viam.com/data/datasets) under the **DATA** tab in Viam and select a dataset.
```

Click **...** in the left-hand menu and click **Copy dataset ID**.

To find a location ID, run `viam locations list` or visit your [fleet's page](https://app.viam.com/robots) in the Viam app and copy from **Location ID**.

###### Copy `export` command

You can also have the filter parameters generated for you using the **Filters** pane of the **DATA** tab.

> Navigate to the [**DATA** tab in the Viam app](https://app.viam.com/data/view), make your selections from the search parameters under the **Filters** pane (such as robot name, start and end time, or tags), and click the **Copy export command** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the [**DATA** tab in Viam](https://app.viam.com/data/view), make your selections from the search parameters under the **Filters** pane (such as machine name, start and end time, or tags), and click the **Copy export command** button.
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Argument | Description | Applicable commands | Required? |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--dataset-id` | The ID of the dataset to train on. To find the dataset ID of a given dataset, go to the [**DATASETS** subtab](https://app.viam.com/data/datasets) of the **DATA** tab in Viam and select a dataset. Click **...** in the left-hand menu and click **Copy dataset ID**. | `submit managed`, `submit custom from-registry`, `submit custom with-upload` | **Required** |

> | `--model-org-id` | The organization ID to train and save the ML model in. You can find your organization ID by running `viam organizations list` or by visiting your organization's **Settings** page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com/). | `submit managed`, `submit custom with-upload` | **Required** |
> | `--org-id` | The organization ID to train and save the ML model in or list training jobs from. You can find your organization ID by running `viam organizations list` or by visiting your organization's **Settings** page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com/). | `submit custom from-registry`, `list` | **Required** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `--model-org-id` | The organization ID to train and save the ML model in. You can find your organization ID by running `viam organizations list` or by visiting your organization's **Settings** page in [Viam](https://app.viam.com/). | `submit managed`, `submit custom with-upload` | **Required** |
| `--org-id` | The organization ID to train and save the ML model in or list training jobs from. You can find your organization ID by running `viam organizations list` or by visiting your organization's **Settings** page in [Viam](https://app.viam.com/). | `submit custom from-registry`, `list` | **Required** |
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Argument | Description | Applicable commands | Required? |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------------- | --------- |

> | `--dataset-id` | The ID of the dataset to train on. To find the dataset ID of a given dataset, go to the [**DATASETS** subtab](https://app.viam.com/data/datasets) of the **DATA** tab in Viam and select a dataset. Click **...** in the left-hand menu and click **Copy dataset ID**. | `submit managed`, `submit custom from-registry`, `submit custom with-upload` | **Required** |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `--dataset-id` | The ID of the dataset to train on. To find the dataset ID of a given dataset, go to the [**DATASETS** subtab](https://app.viam.com/data/datasets) and select a dataset. Click **...** in the left-hand menu and click **Copy dataset ID**. | `submit managed`, `submit custom from-registry`, `submit custom with-upload` | **Required** |
```

| `--model-org-id` | The organization ID to train and save the ML model in. You can find your organization ID by running `viam organizations list` or by visiting your organization's **Settings** page in [Viam](https://app.viam.com/). | `submit managed`, `submit custom with-upload` | **Required** |

> | `--org-id` | The organization ID to train and save the ML model in or list training jobs from. You can find your organization ID by running `viam organizations list` or by visiting your organization's **Settings** page in [Viam](https://app.viam.com/). | `submit custom from-registry`, `list` | **Required** |

Reviewer 2: So RE the thread above, these two changes are good and can stay, but going from nothing to Viam should be reverted
